hey it's time to shape up think about it
you pay with round coins for a round
doughnut with a hole pass an octagonal
stop sign on the road
step into the house turn on the round
light bulb then the rectangular TV and
ask yourself why do objects have such
shapes well I'm gonna tell you the bulb
is round because the light is
distributed evenly this way the tungsten
thread which is lit should be in the
center and in the round shape it's
easier to mark the center
besides these light bulbs are cheaper
and easier to produce toilet paper is
roll shaped because machines making
those rolls process them much faster
than individual leaves early on toilet
paper was sold in square sheets but such
production required more energy in time
donuts have a hole in the center so that
the dough is evenly fry there's even a
story that a captain Gregory then a 16
year old sailor made a hole in a lump of
dough which was then fried to create the
world's first donut and no he was not a
cop initially coins were minted in the
form of rectangular ingots made of an
alloy of gold and silver but it turned
out that round coins are easier to count
and mint also sharp edges on rectangular
coins were out more easily stop signs
are the only octagonal road signs this
way they're recognized from afar and
distinguished from other road signs even
from the backside triangular signs warn
the driver of hazards on the road round
signs regulate the traffic speed and
rectangular signs are informative they
give information about localities and
routes TVs are rectangular because
movies are made for this screen format
but they used to be round before since
they had round
cathode ray tubes CRTs inside and these
tubes were round because it was cheaper
to produce them like that but even
though the lenses are round it doesn't
matter the image is projected onto a
square shaped film and it is square
because it's easier to use this way
camera lenses around because this is the
most convenient form to focus the image
sugar sticks are elongated because they
don't have air inside this way after all
if the air gets in there will be
moisture and the sugar hardens but the
main reason is that sugar is very easy
to add to tea you can even do it with
one hand place the stick on your index
and middle fingers and push your thumb
on the stick
previously sugar was produced in large
blocks and pieces had to be chipped from
it small square packets appeared after a
sugar factory owner's wife cut her
finger when trying to chip a piece of
sugar from a large block the director
then decided to make sugar that would
fit perfectly in the cup airplane
windows are round for a safer flight if
the aircraft windows were square
pressure and strong air flow would
accumulate in their corners which would
lead to loss of pressurization with
rounded windows the load is distributed
and doesn't collect anywhere now
according to one theory the symbol of
the heart looks like that because
Aristotle described the human heart as a
three chambered structure with a small
dent in the middle artists and
scientists in the Middle Ages created
the first symbol of the heart according
to Aristotle's description bananas have
a curved shape because they're trying to
get closer to the Sun while growing
according to the most popular theory the
bag yet got a long shape to make it
easier to break on during construction
of the Paris subway the manager was
afraid of conflicts between the workers
because each of them had a knife to cut
bread with so he asked the company Baker
to create bread that wouldn't need to be
cut thus baguette appeared and the
manager took away the sharp things the
turbo brand gum is different from all
the rest because of its on
we'll shape it looks like it's been run
over by a race car one of the most
popular theories says people used pots
made with a special kind of clay called
pig to keep coins there they called it a
pig Bank since the word sounds like pig
Potter started making money jars in the
shape of those curly tailed animals thus
we got the piggy bank also the pig
symbolizes prosperity and wealth in many
countries most water bottles are round
not only because it's easier to hold
them in your hand but also because the
manufacturers labels are easier to put
on them the shapes of pasta are so
different because a different kind of it
fits a certain sauce thin pasta like
capellini is more suitable for light
sauces and ingredients thick ribbed
pasta like penne is good for more
viscous sauces and vegetable stews the
round Pringles can was made because it's
easier to transport chips inside have a
small chance of being broken the chips
are saddle-shaped for the exact same
reason by the way pizza is round for the
heat to evenly distribute throughout the
pizza while cooking also it's easy to
divide into equal parts and the pizza
box is square because it's cheaper in
production and easier to fit a round
shape into it pans are much like pizza
they're round for even distribution of
heat and ease of washing but most
importantly of course you can throw and
catch pancakes while cooking a hockey
puck was originally made from a lacrosse
ball the ball was cut into three parts
and the middle was used as a puck almost
100 years later they decided to abandon
this tradition and began to glue two
pieces of flat rubber from tires but
such a puck was short-lived only in the
90s the puck took its final form now we
don't exactly know who was the first
inventor of glasses in ancient Rome
people read texts using a round glass
bowl filled with water this inspired
people to new ideas and closer to the
13th century the first glasses appeared
other shapes of glasses only came about
in the 20th century because of fashion
people realized round glasses didn't fit
all head shapes so the frames began to
change shape and size the lollipop stick
has two small holes to fix the candy
when the stick is dipped in hot liquid
syrup it flows through these holes when
it's completely solidified it holds
firmly on the stick
diamonds are a rare form of carbon
that's found deep in the Earth's crust
initially a diamonds appearance isn't
very attractive but when it's cut and
polished it shines most diamonds have a
round shape with slightly pointed
corners in this form a diamond sparkles
the size of a cooking hat depends on the
role and status of the kitchen worker
chefs are kings and queens of the
kitchen so they wear the tallest hats
from a practical point this is also
convenient thanks to the high hat it's
easy to find the chef among the rest of
the staff it's also easier to hide the
little rat chef on your head the number
of hat creases indicates the number of
ways to cook eggs the chef notes and
that's how it all shapes up
[Music]